Friends here our concept is cut command.
Cut command is a powerful tool to extract parts of each line from my file,
each line or each rule.
You can call line as row in a file.
See whenever if you apply cut command on your file,
got command, it will extract some parts from each and every line for a given file.
Then how you work cut command will extract the parts from each and every line.
For a given file.
Simply, it is based on byte position or character position,
or maybe based on feeds.
Fields are based on delimiter.
Don't worry about delimiter will discuss that.
And one more thing.
If you observe bite our character.
Actually they are same.
If you're using Ascii UTF eight encoding.
Suppose in UT 32 encoding technique,
character is represented with four bytes.
But in UD, 81 byte is nothing but one character or one character, one byte.
Fine.
First let me give you some practice so that you will get some idea of what I
will do the complete document for
your cut command so that you will be good with Cut command.
First thing, let me open any file.
Let me open password file.
So it having some content into this.
Now I want to get faster character from each and every line for this file.
Then simply use third option as I fancy because I want to get first character, then one.
Then you were filename.
Now see that you are getting first character.
Now let me try with iPhone b. I, and b means bytes.
But this is A1 coding technique.
That's why there is no difference between either foster bite or foster character.
Fine. So better practices,
just take hyphen character.
Now, suppose I want to get faster character or let me
take some 40 character I want to get from each and every length form from this file.
Then you can apply simple iPhone S4.
Now I want to get for the character.
Along with that, I want to get suppose some character.
Then for command line.
Now I want to get four to nine range.
Then I write, just write for iPhone nine,
you're going to get characters from four to 94 to nine.
And then I want to get one more character coral tool,
the character, yes, you can write it.
Comma two will not say.
And suppose if I want to get one to two will maybe one to ten characters,
then I can write one hyphen ten, that is the range.
If you provide 12, ten or without mentioning any starting range,
then C, That isn't the same result.
If you don't mention the starting range by default,
that will be digitalized.
Foster character.
And one more thing, suppose I want to get first to character.
Let me take some 40 character to last character from each and every line.
Then simply write for hyphen so that it will do for
the character to last a character from each and every lane.
That's it.
That is the simple uses of cut command with a based on.
Character.
Now we have very, very important uses of cut command that is based on fields.
First thing, fields means columns.
Suppose if a, let me write one file.
So practice with the cut 1.2x.
I'm writing some file here.
So I am writing one.
I'm giving tab space,
then to tab three,
then four tab phi m giving tabs spaces.
So becomes a 100 on that.
Then 789.
Oh, let me save this.
Now if you open this file,
you are having three rows and some columns as well.
So this is one column,
which is one column, which is one column.
Column is nothing but a field.
Or field is nothing but a column in your fine.
Fine.
Now, if you observe in this file we how fields, three fields.
But those three fields are separated with a tab space.
I have given tab while typing this content.
So faster thing.
Whenever if you want to work with Cut command,
you will feel too should be separated with the tab.
Then only by default your cut command will work.
Suppose if your fields are separated with any other separator,
then your cut, you have to provide some extra options for your cut command.
So Fields operator is nothing but delimiter.
Now, from here onwards,
if I said delimiter,
You have to understand that what you are cut command,
it is a field separator.
And by default, cut command will work based on tab as if wheels operator.
Let me try with the hyphen UAV option.
I want to get fields.
Suppose I wanted to get second field from this file.
Now see that yes, you are getting,
I want to get first third field.
You can take one comma three,
same as your character syntax.
Yes, I'm getting what I wanted to get.
Foster two last than simply going to add one hyphen mouseY.
That isn't what I wanted to get foster two last VI had gone that right.
I want to get foster 2 third.
That's why I wanted to get foster 2 second node iterate one comma two
R1 hyphen to simply iPhone too,
so that it will do foster 22 because by default starting is
always one in your range. The presentation.
Fine.
Now, let me add some more content into that file.
So now I am adding some lines.
But while adding the lines, I mean content.
I have given simply spaces between the words, not the tab.
Simply I'm using space on my keyboard.
Now if I try to apply cut comment on this,
but let me apply.
I wanted to get suppose second field from this file.
Now see the result. For first three lines it's working,
but for last two lines it is not working.
The reason is, we know that.
Whenever if you are using Cut command with iPhone year for option,
the fields should be separated with tap.
Then only cut command will work.
If fields are not separated with a tab,
then that entire land will be considered as one field only.
So that if you do hyphen e,
F one R2, R3,
it will do entire line.
So before going to apply your cut command,
you are fields should be separated with the tap.
I mean, if you want to work with the default separator,
otherwise, let me take one more file.
It is see password file.
Now if you observe in this entire content,
I want to assume,
suppose this colon as the field separator,
then this is foster field,
then x is the second field, Gero,
third, fourth, root, fifth, Slashdot, sixth, seven.
If you, if you consider colon is the separator delimiter.
Now see the first time a playing card iPhone, you have one.
I wanted to get foster field from this password file.
We are getting entirely.
And instead of getting foster field,
I want to get rude the bin name on ADM LB,
But it is not giving the reason is first thing,
you were fields are not separated with the tab.
But we know that here fields are supplemented with the colon.
That's why you have to mention our field separator with iPhone D,
hyphen D in quotation just mentioned the word fields operator.
Now see the result. So this is very,
very important in your real time.
Not only first field, now you can get either foster field on the field and any field.
So in some lines you how 800 field in some lens you don't know how 800 feet.
Let me take one comma four.
Yes, it's giving.
And be clear while giving the output.
It is giving fields operator also.
So this is the first and this is the fourth field.
So between that, there is a field subreddit called colon.
Now, why displaying your output on the out output,
I want to display with the different fields operator.
Then you can write hyphen, hyphen output.
Output delimiter equals two.
I am writing space.
Now see the result. It is giving spaces in your fields, I mean in the output.
Actually if you don't provide this option,
it is giving first fourth field.
But while giving first fourth field,
the fields are separated by the colon because that is
the actual suburban which is there in your file.
But I want to get a different field separator while displaying the content,
then you can use this option.
So see the spaces is that.
And be clear whenever if you are applying this delimiters here out here,
that should be a single character in your cut command.
But if you go with a WK,
You can apply some group of characters, some patterns.
But in cut command you have to replace single character.
That is the limitation with Cut command.
Of course sometimes your cut,
cut command is very useful.
So once if you are good with cut and a blue, a WK commands,
then based on situation,
you will apply either cut or a WK.
So as of now, forget about AWPA,
concentrated on that command.
Fine.
Now let me go in this way.
One comma four.
Otherwise, suppose I want to get faster for you to fourth fields,
then you can take simply one hyphen for,
instead of that hyphen for. That's it.
And see the result in output,
you are getting wheels up address colon.
But I want to separate output field separator
as we'll separate amines delimiter.
Suppose I want to operate with any, let's say pipeline.
Now see the result. That's it.
But make sure that,
that delimiter is a single character.
That's it.
Now, let me come back with your practice.
So cut dxdy.
Now I'm applying cut comment on these hyphen Jeff.
I want to get suppose foster feel.
Then for first three lunch it will work for last two entities not working.
Now, I want to apply
these two fields operator under default to tab on the default delimited called tab.
Then I don't want to display the remaining lines in which you don't have your delimiter,
then I can use hyphen.
Yes, I can club with iPhone and see the result.
So if you club with the iPhone yes,
for your field is operator the meaning for the reason,
please execute this field separator option in which we have,
I mean, execute on the lines,
which lines are having separator.
So in these three lines,
we help separator delimiter in these two lanes.
You don't have delimiter as a tab,
but now don't get confused.
I'm applying delimiter as this space.
And I want to print the first two field from your practice 2.txt.
Now it is working for last two lanes because for
last two lines only you are having the limit as space.
But for first to three lanes you delimiter is a tab.
That's why you want to cut command is not working for first three lines.
It is working only for last two lines.
No, I want to print the output such that in which lines you how your delimiter.
And I want to skip the remaining lanes in which we don't have our delimiter.
So actually you don't have delimiter here.
I mean space delimiter.
I don't want to print this data.
Then you can suppress that output by providing hyphen Yes option with your F.
You can separately apply in this way or you can club both S and that's fine.
Last one, see, we are applying cut command in this way.
Cut hyphen any, any,
maybe B or I see our iPhone f.
Then you are providing your filename.
Instead of that, you can apply cat command.
Then by using this,
you can see the content on this output also,
you can apply cut command simply by using pipeline.
Third, iPhone if your required fields.
So you actually, the syntax which we are using mostly no real-time.
First we will run some command on that output.
We will apply our cut command.
Right?
Let me give one very simple example.
And this example, I'm going to club with the grep command that is actually
most powerful combination grip and cut or grep and AWS,
or maybe combination of grip cut on a WK.
See, suppose our known command,
I'm running HTTPD hyphen b.
You are getting some output.
But here I want to get only two dot-dot-dot for one,
I don't want to get the remaining length.
The how can I separate that directly if I apply cut command on these outputs,
suppose I am a plane pipeline.
If you observe before you are number there is a separate recalled a slash.
That's why a before applying cut command,
I'm applying delimiters slash.
Please separate lines based on slash,
then slash, then before that, this is one field.
After that, the second field,
I need to get second freedom so that I can see the version.
But you are getting two lines of information.
Actually were washing. Is there only in the first line?
I don't want second line.
Then why should I get second line?
I can skip that, right?
So before applying cut command,
if you grip with version,
because in these two lines, if you observe version is there in the first line.
So if we grappled with version,
you can get only first-line offer that I will apply cut command S0,
HTTPD, hyphen v pipeline grip, hyphen e.
One can see the result we're getting first-line.
Then on this output,
I can apply cut command by providing the limit rise slash.
Then if you apply,
if applied delimiter as slash,
then based on slash,
your data is divided into fields.
So before slash one part,
offer slash, second part,
I mean this is one field,
the second field, our content is there in the second field.
That's why I'm printing second field.
Now see there is a, but you are getting this parenthesis also.
I wanted to remove them.
Then just apply one more time cart command.
And if you observe between these two, there is a space.
And whenever if you are playing cut command called command willow will work based on tab,
but I need to work based on space.
Then you have to apply your delimited,
That is a space.
Then if you apply delimit resist space,
that means based on space,
your data is divided into fields before that spaced
one field after that space, one field.
But we need to get first a field.
That's why I'm writing hyphen.
You have one Nazi.
Now this entire result you can store in a variable also,
if you remember somewhere we discussed how to store the command output into a variable.
It may be on or maybe on command line.
Suppose I am taking a variable called HTTPD was Shun equals $2 parentheses inside that,
write your entire command.
That should now see a quote Dollar HTTP,
PD underscore Washington, that is our variable.
Now let me print it that can see the content NO3.
So in this way,
we can modify our output by using your grip and cut command.
Okay?
Okay, now let me finally do the document for you or cut command, and I will share this.
You can download this document.
Say cut options, positions, maybe fields.
Position means first quarter,
second quarter or foster byte.
Second byte fails means foster feel or second will, something like that.
Then you can also provide a range of fields or range of positions.
Or you can first run some command on that output.
Also, you can apply your cut command.
Now here we have options for your cut command as hyphen, hyphen,
see an iPhone if please concentrate on iPhone C and
hyphen here and mostly uses one is hyphen year.
Then ranges means.
Suppose if I give you only two for iPhone B or iPhones,
your iPhone you have for iPhone B and F and C,
two means second byte or second character for
iPhone IAAF option two means second field to iPhone,
second byte to two,
last byte, or second to last character.
And in iPhone you have second field to last field.
Now you know the uses of remaining things.
Right?
Now, I am giving the syntax for biden character separately and for field separately.
Kurt hyphen b, then position orange oppositions,
characters or range of characters.
That's it. Okay.
So please take this document and the practice
along with this video so that you will be good with your cut command.
So you can also use iphone IS complement to complement the output.
Suppose you want to get second character,
then you are taking hyphen C2.
But before I fancy, suppose you've have play hyphen, hyphen compliment.
You are going to get characters other than to second character,
but say, same thing,
same complement will apply for fields also.
That's it.
Okay, please download this document and practice along with
this document by watching this video so that you will be good width cut command.
Okay?
Okay, thank you.